feat(pkg-r): website improvements (#162)
posit-dev/querychat: pkg-r/vignettes/context.Rmd

---
title: "Provide Context"
output: rmarkdown::html_vignette
vignette: >
  %\VignetteIndexEntry{Provide Context}
  %\VignetteEngine{knitr::rmarkdown}
  %\VignetteEncoding{UTF-8}
---

```{r, include = FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(
  collapse = TRUE,
  comment = "#>",
  eval = FALSE
)
```

querychat automatically gathers information about your table to help the LLM write accurate SQL queries. This includes column names and types, numerical ranges, and categorical value examples. (All of this information is provided to the LLM as part of the **system prompt** -- a string of text containing instructions and context for the LLM to consider when responding to user queries.)

> Importantly, the LLM never sees the actual data itself -- it doesn't need to in order to write SQL queries for you. It only needs to understand the structure and schema of your data.

Reviewer: Let's flip this and say something like "we are **not** sending your raw data to the LLM and asking it to do complicated math".

There's nuance in the "never sees the actual data itself" that I think we're better off avoiding and we can explain the fundamentals without having to contradict ourselves.

Reviewer: Could also be good to point to an article here, something about how LLMs are bad at math, like Wes' recent post.

* [Can LLMs give us AGI if they are bad at arithmetic? – Wes McKinney](https://wesmckinney.com/blog/llms-arithmetic/)
* [Everything we know about LLMs doing Arithmetic](https://loeber.substack.com/p/21-everything-we-know-about-llms)

Author: 32c66dd6472458689b453ba4f5d3f7fa379868a6

You can get even better results by customizing the system prompt in three ways:

1. Add a [data description](#data-description) to provide more context about what the data represents
2. Add [custom instructions](#extra-instructions) to guide the LLM's behavior
3. Use a fully [custom prompt template](#custom-template) if you want complete control (useful if you want to be certain the model cannot see any literal values from your data)

```{r}
library(querychat)
library(palmerpenguins)
```

## Default prompt

> For full visibility into the full system prompt that querychat generates for the LLM, see the `system_prompt` field. This is useful for debugging and understanding exactly what context the LLM is using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For full visibility into the system prompt that querychat generates for the LLM, you can inspect the `system_prompt` field. This is useful for debugging and understanding exactly what context the LLM is using:
```
